docs/USAGE.md, before:

## Usage

This section provides a step-by-step guide on how to use **NovaBoost** effectively.

### Table of Contents

* [Usage](#usage)

  * [1. Reset your template](#reset-your-template)
  * [2. Create a collection](#create-a-collection)
  * [3. AI-Powered Post Generation](#ai-powered-post-generation)
  * [4. Available Commands](#available-commands)
  * [5. Customizing Template Content](#customizing-template-content)



### 1. Reset Your Template

When you start a new project using NovaBoost, you'll notice that it comes with some demo posts, images, and placeholder content.

To reset the project and start with a clean slate, run the following command:

```bash
npm run reset-template
```

This will remove all default collections and posts, giving you a fresh structure to begin building your blog.

> ⚠️ **Warning:** Avoid running this command accidentally during development—it will delete important content and cannot be undone.



## Create a Collection

To quickly create a new **content collection**, simply run:

```bash
npm run create-collection -- <name>
```

This command will:

* Create a folder under `src/content/<name>`.
* Automatically register the schema in `src/content/config.ts`.
* Add the collection reference in `src/collections.ts`.

Inside the `src/content/<name>` folder, you can add all your `.md` or `.mdx` files. Each file will represent an individual post or entry that belongs to that collection.

### Frontmatter Format

Each Markdown file must begin with a **frontmatter block**. This block provides metadata for the post and is essential for features like SEO, tag filtering, publish dates, and displaying images. Here's an example:

```md
---
title: "How to Auto-Generate Blog Content Using OpenAI via NovaBoost CLI"
description: "Learn to auto-generate blog content efficiently using OpenAI and NovaBoost CLI with this step-by-step tutorial."
pubDate: "2025-07-10"
heroImage: "../../assets/post_placeholder.png"
tags: ["openai", "novaboost", "cli"]
affiliateBlock:
  text: "Get this product with a 10% discount🤑!"
  affiliateLink: "https://tu-affiliate.com/?ref=NOVABOOST"
---
```

> **Note:** The `tags` and `affiliateBlock` fields are **optional**. You can omit them if not needed.

You can customize this template to match the schema of your collection. This frontmatter will be parsed and used by Astro to dynamically build your pages.

### Folder Structure

```text
src/
├── content/
│   └── <name>/              # Markdown files for this collection go here
├── content/config.ts        # Collection schema auto-registered here
├── collections.ts           # Reference to the new collection is added here
```


## AI-Powered Post Generation

NovaBoost provides support for **AI-powered post generation** to help you create content quickly and efficiently using CLI prompts and your preferred language model.

### Step 1: Configure `.env.private`

To get started, you need to create a `.env.private` file in the root of your project. This file must contain two variables:

```env
SYSTEM_PROMPT="You can adjust this to set a global tone or style for all AI-generated posts"
USER_PROMPT="Write a blog post introducing NovaBoost’s AI-powered post generation and how it helps content creators save time, Write a step-by-step tutorial on how to use OpenAI to auto-generate blog content inside NovaBoost via CLI prompts, Write a reflective article discussing the pros, cons, and ethical implications of AI-generated content in modern blogs"
```

> **Note:** The `USER_PROMPT` supports multiple prompts, separated by commas. Each prompt will generate a separate blog post.

### Step 2: Run the Command

To generate posts using AI, simply run:

```bash
npm run create-post
```

If you haven’t provided an API key yet, the command will prompt you to enter it. It will then create a `.env.ai` file at the root of your project to store your key (locally and privately).

### Step 3: Choose AI Model

You will be presented with a selection menu to choose your preferred AI model:

* `gpt-4o-2024-08-06` – 🧠 High precision with `zodResponseFormat`
* `gpt-4o-mini` – ⚡ Faster and more affordable
* `gpt-4` – More expensive, but robust
* `gpt-3.5-turbo` – Great for simple tasks
* `gemini-2.5-flash` – For Google Gemini users
* `gemini-2.0-flash` – Older version of Gemini

### Step 4: Select a Collection

Next, you'll see a list of all content collections created using:

```bash
npm run create-collection -- <name>
```

Select the collection where you want the new posts to be added.

### Step 5: Posts Are Generated

NovaBoost will generate one post per prompt defined in `USER_PROMPT`, and write them as `.md` files inside:

```text
src/content/<name>
```

Where `<name>` is the name of the selected collection.

This automation helps streamline your content creation workflow and speeds up blog development significantly.


## Available Commands

Here is a table summarizing the main CLI commands available in **NovaBoost**, including both standard and custom scripts:

| Command                               | Description                                                            |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `npm run dev`                         | Starts the development server with live reload.                        |
| `npm run build`                       | Builds the project for production.                                     |
| `npm run preview`                     | Previews the production build locally.                                 |
| `npm run reset-template`              | Clears all demo content and resets the project to a clean state. ⚠️    |
| `npm run create-collection -- <name>` | Creates a new content collection and registers it automatically.       |
| `npm run create-post`                 | Launches the AI-powered post generator using prompts from your config. |

> ⚠️ **Note:** Use `reset-template` carefully as it deletes all current collections and posts.

These commands streamline the setup, development, and content creation process when building your blog with NovaBoost.


## Customizing Template Content

NovaBoost offers a highly flexible structure for content customization. You can easily adjust text, layout, and styles to match your brand or project.

### Configuration Files (`src/config/`)

Inside the `src/config/` directory, you'll find a series of clearly named `.consts.ts` files. These files hold the data used in various components throughout the template. You can edit these to change the content without touching the layout or component logic.

**Available Files:**

* `cards.consts.ts` – Content for featured cards.
* `faq.consts.ts` – Frequently Asked Questions.
* `footer.consts.ts` – Footer links and information.
* `header.consts.ts` – Header navigation and text.
* `hero.consts.ts` – Hero section title and description.
* `info.consts.ts` – Info blocks for homepage or sections.
* `latestPosts.consts.ts` – Placeholder for recent posts.
* `site.consts.ts` – Global site data like name, slogan, and links.
* `topics.consts.ts` – List of post categories or tags.

> ✏️ Edit these files to change what’s displayed in each section of the website. It’s the fastest way to personalize the UI without modifying component code.

### Styling (`src/styles/`)

To modify colors, fonts, and general styles, head over to the `src/styles/` directory. You’ll find the Tailwind configuration and base styles used across the site.

This separation between logic and content ensures you can make fast, safe updates without risking breaking the layout or functionality.


### Logo for Structured Data

For structured data (JSON-LD) to work correctly, make sure your site's logo file:

* Is named exactly: `logo.png`
* Is placed inside the `public/` folder

```text
/public/logo.png
```

This image will be referenced in the structured metadata to enhance SEO and appearance in search engine results.

By editing these areas, you can quickly adapt NovaBoost to fit your content strategy and visual identity.

Commit message:

feat(cl): npm run get-routes

docs/USAGE.md, after:

## Usage

This section provides a step-by-step guide on how to use **NovaBoost** effectively.

### Table of Contents

* [Usage](#usage)

  * [1. Reset your template](#reset-your-template)
  * [2. Create a collection](#create-a-collection)
  * [3. AI-Powered Post Generation](#ai-powered-post-generation)
  * [4. Available Commands](#available-commands)
  * [5. Customizing Template Content](#customizing-template-content)



### 1. Reset Your Template

When you start a new project using NovaBoost, you'll notice that it comes with some demo posts, images, and placeholder content.

To reset the project and start with a clean slate, run the following command:

```bash
npm run reset-template
```

This will remove all default collections and posts, giving you a fresh structure to begin building your blog.

> ⚠️ **Warning:** Avoid running this command accidentally during development—it will delete important content and cannot be undone.



## Create a Collection

To quickly create a new **content collection**, simply run:

```bash
npm run create-collection -- <name>
```

This command will:

* Create a folder under `src/content/<name>`.
* Automatically register the schema in `src/content/config.ts`.
* Add the collection reference in `src/collections.ts`.

Inside the `src/content/<name>` folder, you can add all your `.md` or `.mdx` files. Each file will represent an individual post or entry that belongs to that collection.

### Frontmatter Format

Each Markdown file must begin with a **frontmatter block**. This block provides metadata for the post and is essential for features like SEO, tag filtering, publish dates, and displaying images. Here's an example:

```md
---
title: "How to Auto-Generate Blog Content Using OpenAI via NovaBoost CLI"
description: "Learn to auto-generate blog content efficiently using OpenAI and NovaBoost CLI with this step-by-step tutorial."
pubDate: "2025-07-10"
heroImage: "../../assets/post_placeholder.png"
tags: ["openai", "novaboost", "cli"]
affiliateBlock:
  text: "Get this product with a 10% discount🤑!"
  affiliateLink: "https://tu-affiliate.com/?ref=NOVABOOST"
---
```

> **Note:** The `tags` and `affiliateBlock` fields are **optional**. You can omit them if not needed.

You can customize this template to match the schema of your collection. This frontmatter will be parsed and used by Astro to dynamically build your pages.

### Folder Structure

```text
src/
├── content/
│   └── <name>/              # Markdown files for this collection go here
├── content/config.ts        # Collection schema auto-registered here
├── collections.ts           # Reference to the new collection is added here
```


## AI-Powered Post Generation

NovaBoost provides support for **AI-powered post generation** to help you create content quickly and efficiently using CLI prompts and your preferred language model.

### Step 1: Configure `.env.private`

To get started, you need to create a `.env.private` file in the root of your project. This file must contain two variables:

```env
SYSTEM_PROMPT="You can adjust this to set a global tone or style for all AI-generated posts"
USER_PROMPT="Write a blog post introducing NovaBoost’s AI-powered post generation and how it helps content creators save time, Write a step-by-step tutorial on how to use OpenAI to auto-generate blog content inside NovaBoost via CLI prompts, Write a reflective article discussing the pros, cons, and ethical implications of AI-generated content in modern blogs"
```

> **Note:** The `USER_PROMPT` supports multiple prompts, separated by commas. Each prompt will generate a separate blog post.

### Step 2: Run the Command

To generate posts using AI, simply run:

```bash
npm run create-post
```

If you haven’t provided an API key yet, the command will prompt you to enter it. It will then create a `.env.ai` file at the root of your project to store your key (locally and privately).

### Step 3: Choose AI Model

You will be presented with a selection menu to choose your preferred AI model:

* `gpt-4o-2024-08-06` – 🧠 High precision with `zodResponseFormat`
* `gpt-4o-mini` – ⚡ Faster and more affordable
* `gpt-4` – More expensive, but robust
* `gpt-3.5-turbo` – Great for simple tasks
* `gemini-2.5-flash` – For Google Gemini users
* `gemini-2.0-flash` – Older version of Gemini

### Step 4: Select a Collection

Next, you'll see a list of all content collections created using:

```bash
npm run create-collection -- <name>
```

Select the collection where you want the new posts to be added.

### Step 5: Posts Are Generated

NovaBoost will generate one post per prompt defined in `USER_PROMPT`, and write them as `.md` files inside:

```text
src/content/<name>
```

Where `<name>` is the name of the selected collection.

This automation helps streamline your content creation workflow and speeds up blog development significantly.


## Available Commands

Here is a table summarizing the main commands available in **NovaBoost**, including both standard and custom scripts:

| Command                                                                | Description                                                                |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `npm run dev`                                                          | Starts the development server with live reload.                            |
| `npm run build`                                                        | Builds the project for production.                                         |
| `npm run preview`                                                      | Previews the production build locally.                                     |
| `npm run reset-template`                                               | Clears all demo content and resets the project to a clean state. ⚠️        |
| `npm run create-collection -- <name>`                                  | Creates a new content collection and registers it automatically.           |
| `npm run create-post`                                                  | Launches the AI-powered post generator using prompts from your config.     |
| `npm run create-multiple -- <collection1> <collection2> <collection3>` | Creates multiple collections in one go (Bash only).                        |
| `npm run get-routes`                                                   | Displays the routes for all created collections, for use in header config. |


> ⚠️ **Note:** Use `reset-template` carefully as it deletes all current collections and posts.

These commands streamline the setup, development, and content creation process when building your blog with NovaBoost.


## Customizing Template Content

NovaBoost offers a highly flexible structure for content customization. You can easily adjust text, layout, and styles to match your brand or project.

### Configuration Files (`src/config/`)

Inside the `src/config/` directory, you'll find a series of clearly named `.consts.ts` files. These files hold the data used in various components throughout the template. You can edit these to change the content without touching the layout or component logic.

**Available Files:**

* `cards.consts.ts` – Content for featured cards.
* `faq.consts.ts` – Frequently Asked Questions.
* `footer.consts.ts` – Footer links and information.
* `header.consts.ts` – Header navigation and text.
* `hero.consts.ts` – Hero section title and description.
* `info.consts.ts` – Info blocks for homepage or sections.
* `latestPosts.consts.ts` – Placeholder for recent posts.
* `site.consts.ts` – Global site data like name, slogan, and links.
* `topics.consts.ts` – List of post categories or tags.

> ✏️ Edit these files to change what’s displayed in each section of the website. It’s the fastest way to personalize the UI without modifying component code.

### Styling (`src/styles/`)

To modify colors, fonts, and general styles, head over to the `src/styles/` directory. You’ll find the Tailwind configuration and base styles used across the site.

This separation between logic and content ensures you can make fast, safe updates without risking breaking the layout or functionality.


### Logo for Structured Data

For structured data (JSON-LD) to work correctly, make sure your site's logo file:

* Is named exactly: `logo.png`
* Is placed inside the `public/` folder

```text
/public/logo.png
```

This image will be referenced in the structured metadata to enhance SEO and appearance in search engine results.

By editing these areas, you can quickly adapt NovaBoost to fit your content strategy and visual identity.
